stratum: [pl] strata : a single layer of something: the upper strata of society
caste: a system of dividing Hindu society into classes, or any of these classes: the caste system
regiment: a large group of soldiers, or (more generally) any large number of things or people: Regiments are usually commanded by a colonel and are sometimes made up of soldiers from a particular city or part of the country
sedentary: involving little exercise or physical activity: a sedentary job/occupation
flaccid: soft or weak rather than firm: The penis is usually in a flaccid state.
procurement:  the process of getting supplies: a substantial budget for the procurement of military supplies
deign to do sth: to do something unwillingly and in a way that shows that you think you are too important to do it: If she deigns to reply to my letter, I'll be extremely surprised.
tacit: understood without being expressed directly: He gave tacit approval to the plan
half-hearted: showing no enthusiasm or interest: He made a half-hearted attempt to clear up the rubbish.
not scruple to do sth: to not care that something you do is morally wrong or likely to have bad results: He wouldn't scruple to cheat his own mother if there was money in it for him.
scruple: a strong belief about what is right or wrong that governs your actions: [ C ] He has scruples about going out with his students.
literal: having exactly the same meaning as the basic or original meaning of a word or expression: a literal interpretation of the Constitution
feign: to pretend to have a particular feeling, problem, etc. : You know how everyone feigns surprise when you tell them how old you are.
flag: [I] to become tired, weaker, or less effective: I was starting to flag after the ninth mile. The conversation was flagging.
fascinate: to interest someone a lot: Science has always fascinated me.
jockey: to attempt to get power or get into a better position than other people using any methods you can: Since the death of the president, opposition parties and the army have been jockeying for power.
efficacy: the quality of being effective; effectiveness: The drug's efficacy has been questioned by consumer advocates.
decorum: behaviour that is controlled, calm, and polite: As young ladies we were expected to act/behave with proper decorum.
transcendental: A transcendental experience, event, object, or idea is extremely special and unusual and cannot be understood in ordinary ways, lie beyond practical experience of ordinary people: a transcendental vision of the nature of God
depraved: morally bad or evil: a depraved character/mind; Someone who can kill a child like that must be totally depraved.
allusive: (of a remark or reference) working by suggestion rather than explicit mention.: allusive references to the body
ornamental: beautiful rather than useful: a bowl of ornamental china fruit
metaphorical: Metaphorical language contains metaphors: Her second novel is written in a very metaphorical style.
metaphor: an expression, often found in literature, that describes a person or object by referring to something that is considered to have similar characteristics to that person or object: "The mind is an ocean" and "the city is a jungle" are both metaphors.
unfettered: not limited by rules or any other controlling influence: Poets are unfettered by the normal rules of sentence structure.
cultivate: to prepare land and grow crops on it, or to grow a particular crop: He cultivated soybeans on most of the land.; to create a new condition by directed effort: We’re trying to help these kids cultivate an interest in science.
comradeship: the feeling of friendship between people who live or work together, especially in a difficult situation
propitiatory: intended to please someone and make them feel calm: a propitiatory gesture
salutary: causing improvement of behaviour or character: a salutary reminder of the dangers of mountain climbing
edifying: improving your mind: Being left in a bar all afternoon with a load of football fans is not the most edifying of experiences.
hard-nosed(hardheaded): practical and determined: His hard-nosed business approach is combined with a very real concern for the less fortunate in society.
salutary: causing improvement of behaviour or character: a salutary experience; a salutary reminder of the dangers of mountain climbing
fortuitous: (of something that is to your advantage) not planned, happening by chance: The timing of the meeting is certainly fortuitous.
plaintive: used to describe something that sounds slightly sad: the plaintive sound of the bagpipes
trenchant: severe, expressing strong criticism or forceful opinions: His most trenchant criticism is reserved for the party leader, whom he describes as "the most incompetent and ineffectual the party has known".
supersede: to replace something older, less effective, or less important or official: Wireless broadband could supersede satellite radio one day.
flout: to intentionally not obey a rule, law, or custom: Many motorcyclists flout the law by not wearing helmets.
parable: a short, simple story that teaches or explains an idea, especially a moral or religious idea
deference: ​ respect and politeness: He treats her with such deference.
intransigent: refusing to change your opinions or behaviour: Unions claim that the management continues to maintain an intransigent position.
supplement: to add something to something to make it larger or better: He supplements (= adds to) his income by working in a bar at night.
recourse: a way of dealing with a difficult or unpleasant situation: If the company won’t pay me, the only recourse left to me is to sue them.
dictate: to give orders, or state something with total authority: [ + question word ] Tennis club rules dictate what kind of footwear may be worn on the courts.; To dictate also means to make necessary: The characteristics of the land dictate much of what can be built.
ordeal:  a very unpleasant and painful or difficult experience: The hostages' ordeal came to an end when soldiers stormed the building.
unscathed: without injuries or damage being caused: Her husband died in the accident but she, amazingly, escaped unscathed.
sully: to spoil something that is pure or someone's perfect reputation: His reputation, he said, had been unfairly sullied by half-truths and innuendos.; to make something dirty: No speck of dirt had ever sullied his hands.
assimilate: to become part of a group, country, society, etc., or to make someone or something become part of a group, country, society, etc.: The European Union should remain flexible enough to assimilate more countries quickly.
petulant: ​ easily annoyed and complaining in a rude way like a child
homogeneous: consisting of parts or people that are similar to each other or are of the same type: a homogeneous group/society
inquisitive: wanting to discover as much as you can about things, sometimes in a way that annoys people: an inquisitive child
venture:  to risk going somewhere or doing something that might be dangerous or unpleasant, or to risk saying something that might be criticized: She rarely ventured outside, except when she went to stock up on groceries.
frail: weak or unhealthy, or easily damaged, broken, or harmed: a frail old lady
gloss:  a smooth, shiny appearance on the surface of something: Marble can be polished to a high gloss.
valiant: very brave or bravely determined, especially when things are difficult or the situation gives no cause for hope: The company has made a valiant effort/attempt in the last two years to make itself more efficient.
phobia: an extreme fear or dislike of a particular thing or situation, especially one that cannot be reasonably explained: I've got a phobia about/of worms.
pervasive: present or noticeable in every part of a thing or place: The influence of Freud is pervasive in her books.
​if only: (other meanings are same, this is additional) the reason for this is: I think you should get a job, if only to have something to do.
conform: to behave according to the usual standards of behaviour that are expected by a group or society: At our school, you were required to conform, and there was no place for originality.
ostentation: the quality of being ostentatious: Her luxurious lifestyle and personal ostentation were both hated and envied.
sovereignty:  the power of a country to control its own government: Talks are being held about who should have sovereignty over the island.
spurn: to refuse to accept something or someone because you feel that thing or person is not worth having: She spurned my offers of help.
gripping: Something that is gripping is so interesting or exciting that it holds your attention completely: I found the book so gripping that I couldn't put it down.
villain: a bad person who harms other people or breaks the law: Some people believe that Richard III was not the villain he is generally thought to have been.
self-righteousness: the quality of believing that your ideas and behaviour are morally better than those of other people: They respond to questions from broadcasters with a nauseating mixture of arrogance and self-righteousness.
hunch: an idea that is based on feeling and for which there is no proof: [ + that ] I had a hunch that you'd be here.
license: the freedom to break rules or principles, or to change facts, esp. when producing literature or works of art: poetic/artistic license
imperative: extremely important or urgent: [ + that ] The president said it was imperative that the release of all hostages be secured.
trepidation: fear or worry about what is going to happen: We view future developments with some trepidation.
unthinkable: so shocking that it cannot be imagined as possible: Today, we see growing acceptance of gay marriage - something that would have been unthinkable a generation ago.
ailment: an illness: Treat minor ailments yourself.
concede:  to admit, often unwillingly, that something is true: [ + (that) ] The government has conceded (that) the new tax policy has been a disaster. [ + speech ] "Well okay, perhaps I was a little hard on her," he conceded.
rein sth in/back: to control something and stop it increasing: Consumers tend to rein in their spending in a recession. Some of the worst Wall Street abuses have been reined in
bolster: to support or improve something or make it stronger: More money is needed to bolster the industry.
indemnify: to protect someone or something against possible damage or loss by paying an indemnity to cover the costs: The insurance also indemnifies the house against flooding.
prop sth up: to lift and give support to something by putting something under it: He was sitting upright in his hospital bed, propped up by pillows.
manacle: A metal band, chain, or shackle for fastening someone's hands or ankles.: the practice of keeping prisoners in manacles; usually be manacled
Fetter (a person or a part of the body) with manacles.: his hands were manacled behind his back
bridle:  to show sudden anger: She bridled at the suggestion that she had been dishonest.
subversion: the act of trying to destroy or damage an established system or government: He was found guilty of subversion and imprisoned.
nuance: a very slight difference in appearance, meaning, sound, etc.: The painter has managed to capture every nuance of the woman's expression.
clerical: relating to a priest or priests: clerical ministry
secular: not having any connection with religion: We live in an increasingly secular society, in which religion has less and less influence on our daily lives.
ecstatic: extremely happy: The new president was greeted by an ecstatic crowd.
gracious: behaving in a pleasant, polite, calm way: a gracious smile
crestfallen: disappointed and sad because of having failed unexpectedly: He looked crestfallen at their decision.
vigorous: healthy and strong: Cutting the bush back in the autumn will help promote vigorous growth in the spring.
etiquette: ​the set of rules or customs that control accepted behaviour in particular social groups or social situations: Social etiquette dictates that men cannot sit while women are standing.
credo: a set of beliefs that influences the way you live
grandiose: larger and containing more detail than necessary, or intended to seem important or great: grandiose schemes/designs/ideas for making money
transcend: to go further, rise above, or be more important or better than something, especially a limit: The best films are those which transcend national or cultural barriers. The underlying message of the film is that love transcends everything else.
manifest: to show something clearly, through signs or actions: The workers chose to manifest their dissatisfaction in a series of strikes.
acquittal: the decision of a court that someone is not guilty: The first trial ended in a hung jury, the second in acquittal.
verdict: a decision by a jury as to whether someone is guilty after having heard the facts given at a trial: The jury reached/returned a verdict of not guilty after six hours of deliberation.
exorcise: to remove the bad effects of a frightening or upsetting event: It will take a long time to exorcise the memory of the accident.
trepidation: fear or worry about what is going to happen: We view future developments with some trepidation.
court: to risk something unpleasant, especially by behaving stupidly or carelessly: Drinking and driving is simply courting disaster.
gouge: to make a hole in something in a rough or violent way: He drove into some railings and gouged a hole in the back of his car.; to charge someone far too much money for something done or something sold: We didn't know the value of the foreign money, and the taxi driver gouged us.
intrepid: extremely brave and showing no fear of dangerous situations: a team of intrepid explorers
ambivalent: having two opposing feelings at the same time, or being uncertain about how you feel: I felt very ambivalent about leaving home.