pertinent: relating directly to the subject being considered; relevant: a pertinent question
prominent: very noticeable, important, or famous: She plays a prominent role in the organization.; If something is prominent, it sticks out from a surface or can be seen easily: She has a prominent chin/nose.
candor: the quality of being honest, sincere, and kind in dealing with other people: "We want to help but really don’t know how," she said with surprising candor.
congenial: friendly and pleasant: congenial company/surroundings
antagonistic: actively opposing or showing unfriendliness towards something or someone: He's extremely antagonistic towards all critics.
frustrate: to prevent the plans or efforts of someone or something from being achieved: The continuing civil war is frustrating the efforts of relief agencies.
embellish:  to make something more beautiful by adding something to it: The ceiling was embellished with flowers and leaves.; [ I or T ] to add or change some details of a story, usually to make it more interesting or exciting: He couldn't resist embellishing the story of his accident a little.
unleash: to suddenly release a violent force that cannot be controlled: At worst, nuclear war could be unleashed.
overwrought: in a state of being upset, nervous, and worried: She was so tired and overwrought that she burst into tears.
obdurate: extremely determined to act in a particular way and not to change despite what anyone else says: The president remains obdurate on immigration; used to describe a person who refuses to change their mind, or someone or something that is difficult to deal with or change: Union leaders remain obdurate that working conditions and pay improve.
derelict: a person who has no home or money and often lives outside; ​(of buildings or equipment) not cared for and in bad condition
hitherto: until now or until a particular time: Mira revealed hitherto unsuspected talents on the dance floor.; Economic aid has been offered to hitherto depressed people.
conjure: to make something appear by magic, or as if by magic: In an instant, the magician had conjured (up) a dove from his hat.
fuse: to join or become combined: Genes determine how we develop from the moment the sperm fuses with the egg.; The bones of the skull are not properly fused at birth.
shunt: to move someone or something to the side or away: Seals can shunt blood away from their skin to maintain body temperature.
semantic: (of words and language) connected with meaning: Words are semantic units that convey meaning.
opacity: the state of being opaque, or the degree to which something is opaque
erudite: having or containing a lot of knowledge that is known by very few people: He's the author of an erudite book on Scottish history.
menial: Menial work is boring, makes you feel tired, and is given a low social value: It's fairly menial work, such as washing dishes and cleaning floors.
remission: [formal] a period of time when an illness is less severe or is not affecting someone: Her cancer has been in remission for several years. ; [uk specialized law] a reduction of the time that a person has to stay in prison: He was given three months' remission for good behaviour.; the fact of being forgiven for breaking religious laws or rules: He believes that redemption is based on remission of sins.
ornamental: 
beautiful rather than useful: a bowl of ornamental china fruit; 
calculable: that can be calculated
paucity: the fact that there is too little of something: There is a paucity of information on the ingredients of many cosmetics.
compendium: a short but complete account of a particular subject, esp. in the form of a book: She put together a compendium of early American furniture.
treatise: a formal piece of writing that considers and examines a particular subject: a six-volume treatise on trademark law
ordeal: a very unpleasant and painful or difficult experience: The hostages' ordeal came to an end when soldiers stormed the building.
coherence: the situation when the parts of something fit together in a natural or reasonable way: There was no coherence between the first and the second half of the movie.
climax: the most important or exciting point in a story or situation, especially when this happens near the end: The climax of the air show was a daring flying display.
hiatus: a short pause in which nothing happens or is said, or a space where something is missing: The company expects to resume production of the vehicle again after a two-month hiatus.
prescribe: to tell someone what he or she must have or do, or to give as a rule: A secretary of education cannot and should not prescribe the curriculum of the nation’s colleges.
entice: to persuade someone to do something by offering them something pleasant: The adverts entice the customer into buying things they don't really want. One of the enticements of the job is the company car.
permeate: to spread through something and be present in every part of it: The smell of detergent and bleach permeated the air.
dormancy: the state of being dormant (= not active or growing but able to become active later): Warm temperatures bring the seeds out of dormancy.
revive:  to come or bring something back to life, health, existence, or use: to revive someone's hopes/confidence/fortunes; My plants revived as soon as I gave them some water.
germinate: (IDEA) to start developing: I felt an idea germinating in my head/mind.
proliferate: to increase a lot and suddenly in number: Small businesses have proliferated in the last ten years.
jeer: to laugh or shout insults at someone to show you have no respect for them: The people at the back of the hall jeered (at) the speaker.
appear for sb: If a lawyer appears for someone, he or she acts for and represents the person: Ms Hawley was appearing for the defence.
balk: to be unwilling to do something or to allow something to happen: I balked at the prospect of spending four hours on a train with him.
atrocity: an extremely cruel, violent, or shocking act: They are on trial for committing atrocities against the civilian population.;  the fact of something being extremely cruel, violent, or shocking: These people are guilty of acts of appalling atrocity (= cruelty).
earthy: enjoying and being honest or clear about things connected to life, such as the body and emotions: Some readers may not like his earthy humor.
sly: deceiving people in a clever way in order to get what you want: He's a sly old devil - I wouldn't trust him with my money.;  seeming to know secrets: "You'll find out eventually," said Mary, with a sly smile.
startle: to surprise a person or animal: She startled him when she said hello.
earthiness: the quality of being open and direct, often in a way that refers to sex and the human body: I like the earthiness of her writing.
slip: to slide without intending to: She slipped on the ice.; to move easily and quietly so you are not noticed, or to move something easily into position: Ben slipped the credit card into the machine.
vulgar: not polite or socially acceptable; not suitable or acceptable in style: His manners were coarse and vulgar.; rude or offensive, esp. because referring to sex: The movie is rated PG and has a few mildly vulgar jokes.
mellifluous: having a pleasant and flowing sound: a deep mellifluous voice
racy: exciting and slightly shocking, especially because of relating to or suggesting sex: She is trying to create a racier image for herself.
ribaldry: language that refers to sex in a rude but humorous way: good-natured ribaldry
piety: strong belief in a religion that is shown in the way someone lives
bashful: often feeling uncomfortable with other people and easily embarrassed: She gave a bashful smile as he complimented her on her work.
wanderlust: the wish to travel far away and to many different places: In July wanderlust takes over the whole nation.
exodus: the movement of a lot of people from a place: There has been a mass exodus of workers from the villages to the towns.
falter: (STOP) to lose strength or purpose and stop, or almost stop: The dinner party conversation faltered for a moment.; to move awkwardly as if you might fall: The nurse saw him falter and made him lean on her.
inaugural: An inaugural speech is the first speech someone gives when starting an important new job: the president's inaugural address to the nation
​indomitable: used to say that someone is strong, brave, determined, and difficult to defeat or frighten: The indomitable Mrs Furlong said she would continue to fight for justice.
trophy: a prize, such as a gold or silver cup, that is given to the winner of a competition or race, and often returned after a year to be given to the winner of the competition in the following year: He's an excellent rider, but he's never won a major trophy.
disputable: not certain: People say that they produce the best athletes in the world, but I think that's disputable.
stipulate: to say exactly how something must be or must be done: She agreed to buy the car, but stipulated racing tyres and a turbo-powered engine.
cognizant: understanding or realizing something: We should be cognizant of the fact that every complaint is not a justified complaint.
bereft: not having something or feeling great loss: Alone now and almost penniless, he was bereft of hope.
the epitome of sth: the typical or highest example of a stated quality, as shown by a particular person or thing: Even now in her sixties, she is the epitome of French elegance.
unified: brought together, combined, or united: We have to be able to speak with a unified voice on this subject.
adamant: impossible to persuade, or unwilling to change an opinion or decision: [ + that ] I've told her she should stay at home and rest but she's adamant that she's coming.
divine: connected with a god, or like a god: Some fans seem to regard the players as divine beings.
conscientious: putting a lot of effort into your work: a conscientious student
mystification: the state of feeling very confused because someone or something is impossible to understand: And then, to the audience's mystification, the band suddenly stopped playing.
secular: not having any connection with religion: We live in an increasingly secular society, in which religion has less and less influence on our daily lives.
discharge: (PERFORMANCE) [formal] the performance of duties or payment of money that is owed: the discharge of his duties
earthly: (used in questions or negatives) possible: What earthly reason can she have for being so rude?
disavow: to say that you know nothing about or have no responsibility for something: He disavowed his earlier confession to the police.
belligerent: wishing to fight or argue: a belligerent person; fighting a war: The belligerent countries are having difficulties funding the war.
fallibility: the possibility that someone will make mistakes or that something will not work as it should: The play deals with the fallibility of human nature. He spoke frankly about his own fallibility.
hoard: to collect large amounts of something and keep it in a safe, often secret, place: During the siege people began hoarding food and supplies.; a large amount of something that someone has saved and hidden: We found a huge hoard of tinned food in the basement.
restoration: the act or process of returning something to its earlier good condition or position: The first task following the disaster was the restoration of clean water supplies.
partisan: strongly supporting a person, principle, or political party, often without considering or judging the matter very carefully: The audience was very partisan, and refused to listen to her speech.
capricious: changing mood or behaviour suddenly and unexpectedly: a capricious child
indulgent: allowing someone to have or do what they want, especially when this is not good for them: He had been a strict father but was indulgent to/towards his grandchildren.
chronological: following the order in which a series of events happened: Give me the dates in chronological order.
ubiquitous: seeming to be everywhere: Leather is very much in fashion this season, as is the ubiquitous denim.
prevaricate: to avoid telling the truth or saying exactly what you think: He accused the minister of prevaricating.
judicious: having or showing reason and good judgment in making decisions: We should make judicious use of the resources available to us.
jettison: to get rid of something or someone that is not wanted or needed: The station has jettisoned educational broadcasts.; to decide not to use an idea or plan: We've had to jettison our trip because of David's accident.; to throw goods, fuel, or equipment from a ship or aircraft to make it lighter: The captain was forced to jettison the cargo and make an emergency landing.
caricature: a drawing or a written or spoken description that makes part of someone's appearance or character more noticeable than it really is, or the skill of doing this: [ C ] I saw a wonderful caricature of the president in the newspaper.; to show or describe a person in a ridiculous way: It’s so easy to caricature politicians.
lament: to express sadness and feeling sorry about something: The poem opens by lamenting (over) the death of a young man.
irascible: made angry easily: She's becoming more and more irascible as she grows older.
irascibly: in a way that shows that you are made angry easily: Their manager often behaves irascibly.
fitful: going off and on irregularly: Her breathing is fitful.
