hasten: to make something happen sooner or more quickly: There is little doubt that poor medical treatment hastened her death.; If you hasten to do something, you quickly do it: The president hastened to reassure his people that he was in perfect health.; If you hasten to say something, you want to make it clear: It was an unfortunate decision and I hasten to say it had nothing to do with me.
familial: similar to that in a family: a familial relationship
impromptu: done or said without earlier planning or preparation: an impromptu party/performance
veracity: the quality of being true, honest, or accurate: Doubts were cast on the veracity of her alibi.
manifestation: a sign of something existing or happening: She claimed that the rise in unemployment was just a further manifestation of the government's incompetence.
deity: a god or goddess: Ares and Aphrodite were the ancient Greek deities of war and love.
fecundity: the fact of producing or creating a lot of new things, ideas, etc.: The play is yet another representation of his creative fecundity
economy:  the intentional saving of money or, less commonly, the saving of time, energy, words, etc.: She writes with such economy - I've never known a writer say so much in so few words.
facet: one of the parts or features of something: There’s always one facet of my golf game that isn’t working.
heed: to pay attention to something, especially advice or a warning: The airline has been criticized for failing to heed advice/warnings about lack of safety routines.
inconsequential: not important: an inconsequential matter/remark
supplement: to add to something: She got a second job to supplement her income.
undoing: the cause of a person’s failure or loss of power or wealth: His failure to delegate authority and his arrogance led to his undoing.
callous: unkind, cruel, and without sympathy or feeling for other people: It might sound callous, but I don't care if he's homeless. He's not living with me!
exquisite: very beautiful and delicate: an exquisite piece of china
superfluous: more than is needed or wanted: The report was marred by a mass of superfluous detail.
blunt: to make something less sharp; to make a feeling less strong: My recent bad experience has blunted my enthusiasm for travel.
vex: to cause difficulty to someone, or to cause someone to feel angry, annoyed, or upset: This issue looks likely to continue to vex the government.
notorious:  famous for something bad: one of Mexico's most notorious criminals
cryptic: mysterious and difficult to understand: I got a cryptic text message from Sam.
spurious: based on false reasoning or information that is not true, and therefore not to be trusted: They made spurious claims of personal injury.
imperative: something that is extremely important or urgent: Getting the unemployed back to work, said the mayor, is a moral imperative.
progressive:  developing or happening gradually: There's been a progressive decline in the standard of living over the past few years. a progressive disease;  Progressive ideas or systems are new and modern, encouraging change in society or in the way that things are done: progressive ideas/attitudes
intricate: having a lot of small parts that are arranged in a complicated or delicate way: The watch mechanism is extremely intricate and very difficult to repair.; with many complicated details that make something difficult to understand: Police officers uncovered an intricate web of deceit.
provocative: causing thought about interesting subjects: The programme will take a detailed and provocative look at the problem of homelessness.
specious: seeming to be right or true, but really wrong or false: a specious argument/claim
contemporary: existing or happening now: Although the play was written hundreds of years ago, it still has a contemporary (= modern) feel to it.; belonging to the same or a stated period in the past: Almost all of the contemporary accounts of the event have been lost.
entangle: to cause something to become caught in something such as a net or ropes: The dolphin had become entangled in/with the fishing nets.; entangled in/with sth/sb: involved with something or someone in a way that makes it difficult to escape: He went to the shop to buy bread, and got entangled in/with a carnival parade.
discernment: the ability to judge people and things well: It's clear that you are a person of discernment.
pedantry: the quality of being too interested in formal rules and small details that are not important: There was a hint of pedantry in his elegant style of speaking.
reinstate: to put someone back in a job or position previously held, or to put a law or rule back into effect: She will be reinstated to her full professorship and receive back pay and benefits.
frivolous: behaving in a silly way and not taking anything seriously: I think he sees her as a frivolous young woman.; A frivolous activity or object is silly or not important rather than useful or serious: I feel like doing something completely frivolous today.
patronage: the support given to an organization by someone: The charity enjoys the patronage of many prominent local business people.; the power to give someone an important job or advantages in exchange for help or support: New rules would minimize the effects of political patronage.
scourge: something or someone that causes great suffering or a lot of trouble: the scourge of war/poverty/drugs
impunity: freedom from punishment or from the unpleasant results of something that has been done: Criminal gangs are terrorizing the city with apparent impunity.
protract: lasting for a long time or made to last longer than necessary: protracted negotiations 
infirm: ill or needing care, especially for long periods and often because of old age: She was too elderly and infirm to remain at home.
parody: a piece of writing or music that copies the style of a serious piece in a way that is intentionally humorous: [ C ] Brando did a parody of the character he played in "The Godfather."
contentious: causing , involving, or likely to cause disagreement and argument: She has some very contentious views on education.
conviction: a strong opinion or belief: religious/moral convictions