opportunism: behaviour in which you use every situation to try to get power or an advantage: political opportunism
partisanship: the quality or action of strongly supporting a person, principle, or political party, often without considering or judging the matter very carefully: There was a certain partisanship about the way that votes were cast.
omniscience: the quality of having or seeming to have unlimited knowledge: I do not claim omniscience, nor am I incapable of making mistakes.
cede: Give up (power or territory) ‘they have had to cede control of the schools to the government’
precarious: in a dangerous state because of not being safe or not being held in place firmly: The lorry was lodged in a very precarious way, with its front wheels hanging over the cliff; A precarious situation is likely to get worse: Many borrowers now find themselves caught in a precarious financial position.
substantiate: to show something to be true, or to support a claim with facts: We have evidence to substantiate the allegations against him.
posturing: behaviour or speech that is intended to attract attention and interest, or to make people believe something that is not true: His writing has been dismissed as mere intellectual posturing.
reticent: unwilling to speak about your thoughts or feelings: He is very reticent about his past.
obviate: to remove a difficulty, especially so that action to deal with it becomes unnecessary: A peaceful solution would obviate the need to send a UN military force.
forestall: to prevent something from happening by acting first: The company executives forestalled criticism by inviting union leaders to meet.
politicize: to make an organization, individual, or activity political or more aware of political matters: Law enforcement should not be politicized.
beholden: feeling you have a duty to someone because they have done something for you: She wanted to be independent and beholden to no one.
inept: not skilled or effective: He was always rather inept at sport.
impute: Represent (something, especially something undesirable) as being done, caused, or possessed by someone; attribute: the crimes imputed to Richard; Ascribe (righteousness, guilt, etc.) to someone by virtue of a similar quality in another.: Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us
righteous: morally correct: He was regarded as a righteous and holy man.
deceit: (an act of) keeping the truth hidden, especially to get an advantage: The story is about theft, fraud, and deceit on an incredible scale.
equivocate: Use ambiguous language so as to conceal the truth or avoid committing oneself. : "Not that we are aware of", she equivocated.
evasive: done in order to avoid something: Are you being deliberately evasive?
acumen: the ability to make correct judgments: Mr. Estavez has real business acumen.
shrewdness: clear understanding and good judgment of a situation, usually resulting in an advantage: She was a woman of great courage and political shrewdness.
rambling: (TALK) too long and confused: a long rambling speech
polemical: (of a piece of writing or a speech) strongly attacking or defending a particular opinion, person, idea, or set of beliefs: a polemical essay. Many philosophical texts have a highly polemical style.
outspoken: expressing strong opinions very directly without worrying if other people are offended: Mr Masack is an outspoken critic of the present government.
layperson:  someone who is not an expert in or does not have a detailed knowledge of a particular subject: Any layperson can sit down at this console and begin doing productive work in minutes.
impudent: rude and not showing respect, especially towards someone who is older or in a more important position: an impudent remark/child
venality: the state or quality of being venal (= willing to behave dishonestly in exchange for money): His reputation has been defined by allegations of corruption and venality.
brazen: obvious, without any attempt to be hidden: brazen cheating
courteous:  polite and showing respect: Although she often disagreed with me, she was always courteous.
nettle: to make someone annoyed or slightly angry: She looked up at me sharply, clearly nettled by the interruption.
exposition: a clear and full explanation of an idea or theory: It purports to be an exposition of Catholic social teaching.
objurgate: Rebuke severely, scold.: the old man objurgated his son
devious: (DISHONEST) Devious people or plans and methods are dishonest, often in a complicated way, but often also clever and successful: You have to be devious if you're going to succeed in business.
vestigial:  being a small remaining part or amount
nascent: only recently formed or started, but likely to grow larger quickly: a nascent political party 
impediment: something that makes progress, movement, or achieving something difficult or impossible: In a number of developing countries, war has been an additional impediment to progress.
apostle: someone who strongly supports a particular belief or political movement: an apostle of world peace/liberty
anachronism: someone or something placed in the wrong period in history, or something that belongs to the past rather than the present: For a historical drama, the movie was filled with anachronisms.
foreground: to give the most importance to a particular subject, etc.: His speech foregrounded the history of the decision. 
transcend: to go further, rise above, or be more important or better than something, especially a limit: The underlying message of the film is that love transcends everything else.
panache: a stylish, original, and very confident way of doing things that makes people admire you: The orchestra played with great panache.
finesse: great skill or style: It was a disappointing performance that lacked finesse.
gawky: tall and awkward: a gawky teenager
ideological: based on or relating to a particular set of ideas or beliefs: ideological differences
righteous: morally correct: He was regarded as a righteous and holy man
quixotic: having or showing ideas that are different and unusual but not practical or likely to succeed: This is a vast, exciting and some say quixotic project.
brandish: to wave something in the air in a threatening or excited way: He looked silly brandishing one of those Star Wars lightsabers.
flout: to intentionally not obey a rule, law, or custom: Many motorcyclists flout the law by not wearing helmets.
capricious: changing mood or behaviour suddenly and unexpectedly: a capricious child. He was a cruel and capricious tyrant.
meticulous: very careful and with great attention to every detail: Many hours of meticulous preparation have gone into writing the book.
fleeting : short or quick: a fleeting glimpse
infusion: the act of adding one thing to another to make it stronger or better: An infusion of $100,000 into the company is required.
woes: big problems or troubles: The country has been beset by economic woes for the past decade.; extreme sadness: Her face was lined and full of woe.
lurid: (SHOCKING) (especially of a description) shocking because involving violence, sex, or immoral activity: You can read all the lurid details of the affair in today's paper. ; (COLOUR) too brightly coloured: That's a very lurid shade of lipstick she's wearing.
synoptic: giving a short description of something: a synoptic outline of the book's contents
keep abreast of sth: to make sure you know all the most recent facts about a subject or situation: I try to keep abreast of any developments.
tendentious: (of speech or writing) expressing or supporting a particular opinion that many other people disagree with
fractious: easily upset or annoyed, and often complaining: a fractious child
whereby:  by which way or method: They've set up a plan whereby you can spread the cost over a two-year period.; in which, or with which: It's put me in a position whereby I can't afford to take a job.
innate: An innate quality or ability is one that you were born with, not one you have learned: Cyril's most impressive quality was his innate goodness.
inimical: harmful or limiting: Excessive managerial control is inimical to creative expression.
suffrage: ​ the right to vote in an election, especially to vote for representatives in a government: universal suffrage (= the right of all adults to vote)
diffuse: to (cause something to) spread in many directions: Television is a powerful means of diffusing knowledge.; spread out and not directed in one place: a diffuse light
predominant: more noticeable or important, or larger in number, than others: Research forms the predominant part of my job