disparate：different in every way 
alienation: (Separation) the feeling that you have no connection with the people around you; (Loss of support) 
vitalism: the theory that the origin and phenomena of life are dependent on a force or principle distinct from purely chemical or physical forces.
purposive: having a purpose; done with the aim of achieving a particular thing
obsolete: no longer used or needed, usually because something newer and better has replaced it
obsolescence: the quality of being obsolete
sporadic: happening sometimes; not regular or continuous
circumspect: careful not to take risk
object: (PURPOSE) a reason for doing something, or the result you wish to achieve by doing it; the result that is wanted from an activity
discourse: communication in speech or writing; a speech or piece of writing about a particular, usually serious, subject.
unadorned: plain and simple, with little or no decoration
prose: written language in its ordinary form rather than poetry
lengthy: continuing for a long time
tame: (especially of animals) not wild or dangerous, either naturally or because of training or long involvement with humans; not interesting or exciting; to make a wild animal tame; to control something dangerous or powerful
tendentious: (of speech or writing) expressing or supporting a particular opinion that many other people disagree with
meretricious: seeming attractive but really false or of little value
beneficent: helping people and doing good acts
fastidious: having high standards and giving a lot of attention to details: The restaurant offers elaborate food and fastidious service at high prices.
didactic: intended to teach, or to improve morals by teaching: Children’s books possess a practical, didactic purpose – to instill a love for reading.
iconoclastic: strongly opposing generally accepted beliefs and traditions: His plays were fairly iconoclastic in their day.
reverence: a feeling of respect or admiration for someone or something: She has/shows/feels great reverence for her professors.
vocal:  relating to or produced by the voice, either in singing or speaking: vocal music; often expressing opinions and complaints in speech: He is emerging as his party’s most vocal critic of the president.
polemic: a piece of writing or a speech in which a person strongly attacks or defends a particular opinion, person, idea, or set of beliefs: She has published a fierce anti-war polemic.
disseminate: to spread or give out news, information, ideas, etc. to many people: The purpose of a university press is to disseminate knowledge by publishing books and journals.
corroborate: to add proof to an account, statement, idea, etc. with new information: Recent research seems to corroborate his theory.
debunk: to show that something is not true: Every week some long-held medical theory is debunked.
bogus: false, not real, or not legal: On investigation, his claim was found to be bogus.
copious: in large amounts, or more than enough: They drank copious amounts of wine.
meticulous: very careful and with great attention to every detail: Many hours of meticulous preparation have gone into writing the book.
exacting: demanding a lot of effort, care, or attention: an exacting training schedule
stingy: unwilling to spend money: He's really stingy and never buys anyone a drink when we go out.
diffidence: the quality of being shy and not confident of your abilities: The biggest difficulty is overcoming natural British diffidence
frugal: careful when using money or food, or (of a meal) cheap or small in amount: a frugal lifestyle
thrift: the careful use of money, especially by avoiding waste
involved:  (COMPLICATED) difficult to understand or deal with; complicated: His story was so involved that I couldn’t follow it.
ritual:  a set of fixed actions and sometimes words performed regularly, especially as part of a ceremony: Coffee and the newspaper are part of my morning ritual.
account: a written or spoken description of an event: She gave a thrilling account of her life in the jungle. He kept a detailed account of the suspect's movements.
wary: careful because you do not completely trust someone or something or are not certain about what you should do: Teachers are often wary of standardized tests.
judicious: having or showing reason and good judgment in making decisions: We should make judicious use of the resources available to us.
frivolity: behaviour that is silly and not serious, or things that are silly and not important: You shouldn't treat such a serious subject with frivolity.
penitential: ​ showing that you are sorry, especially in a formal religious way, for wrong things that you have done: a penitential prayer
austerity: the condition of living without unnecessary things and without comfort, with limited money or goods, or a practice, habit, or experience that is typical of this: The wartime austerity of my early years prepared me for later hardships. ;  the quality of being austere in appearance or manner: the austerity of her short hair and plain grey suit
austere: very simple and without comfort or unnecessary things, especially because of severe limits on money or goods: an austere childhood during the war; plain and without decoration: The courtroom was a large, dark chamber, an austere place. ;very severe and unfriendly in manner: He was a tall, austere, forbidding figure.
impetuous: acting or done suddenly without much thought: Then, impetuous as I was, I bought a new car before I even got a job
prodigal: tending to spend or use something without thinking of the future: He was prodigal with his talents
taciturn: tending not to speak much: He's a reserved, taciturn person.
volubility: The quality of talking fluently, readily, or incessantly; talkativeness. ‘her legendary volubility deserted her’
prolix: (of speech or writing) using or containing too many words; tediously lengthy. ‘he found the narrative too prolix and discursive’
prosaic: ordinary and not especially interesting or unusual: Only a few prosaic tables and chairs remained by the time we got to the auction.
rumination:  the act of thinking carefully and for a long period about something 
electorate: all the people who are allowed to vote: The present voting system distorts the wishes of the electorate.
skittish: (of people and animals) nervous or easily frightened: My horse is very skittish, so I have to keep him away from traffic.; (of a person) not serious and likely to change their beliefs or opinions often: Marilyn was like a child, playful and skittish one moment, sulky and withdrawn the next.
sulk: to be silent and refuse to smile or be pleasant to people because you are angry about something that they have done: He's sulking in his room because I wouldn't let him have any more chocolate.
restive: unwilling to be controlled or be patient: The audience was becoming restive as they waited for the performance to begin.
vociferous: Vociferous people express their opinions and complaints loudly and repeatedly in speech, and vociferous demands, etc. are made repeatedly and loudly: Local activist groups have become increasingly vociferous as the volume of traffic passing through the village has increased.
unseemly: ​not suitable or polite: unseemly language
indecorous: behaving badly or rudely
fortuitous: (of something that is to your advantage) not planned, happening by chance: The timing of the meeting is certainly fortuitous.
stem: to stop something unwanted from spreading or increasing; to stop the flow of a liquid such as blood.
bolster: to support or improve something or make it stronger: More money is needed to bolster the industry.
bluff: to try to trick someone into believing something, esp. in order to get an advantage over that person: [ I ] The landlord claimed to have the right to raise his rent, but we believed he was bluffing and refused to pay it. (CLIFF)  (used in many names of places) a cliff or steep slope, often above a river: Council Bluffs, Iowa; (TRICK) an attempt to trick someone: The threat to go on strike was no bluff, the union leaders insisted.
hostile: (UNFRIENDLY) showing strong dislike; unfriendly: Her parents were openly hostile to me. (DIFFICULT) difficult or not suitable for living or growing: The Nevada desert is one of the most hostile regions in America. (WARLIKE) connected with an enemy or an act of war: The enemy was preparing to take hostile action.
milieu: the people and the physical and social conditions and events that provide a background in which someone acts or lives: the Irish-Catholic milieu of Chicago; a cultural milieu
elude: (NOT ACHIEVE) (formal) If something that you want eludes you, you do not succeed in achieving it: The gold medal continues to elude her.; They had minor breakthroughs but real success eluded them. (NOT BE CAUGHT) to not be caught by someone: They eluded the police by fleeing.; (NOT REMEMBER) formal If a piece of information eludes you, you cannot remember it: I know who you mean but her name eludes me.
welter: a large and especially badly organized number of things: We are reducing the company's welter of development projects and will streamline sales and marketing.; The report was issued amid a welter of conflicting evidence.
propaganda: information, ideas, opinions, or images, often only giving one part of an argument, that are broadcast, published, or in some other way spread with the intention of influencing people's opinions: political/wartime propaganda; At school we were fed communist/right-wing propaganda.
hyperbole: a way of speaking or writing that makes someone or something sound much bigger, better, smaller, worse, more unusual, etc., than they are: Although he’s not given to hyperbole, Ron says we are light-years ahead of our time.
condone: to accept or allow behaviour that is wrong: If the government is seen to condone violence, the bloodshed will never stop.
compel: to force someone to do something: [ + to infinitive ] As a schoolboy he was compelled to wear shorts even in winter.; (formal) to produce a strong feeling or reaction: Over the years her work has compelled universal admiration and trust.
flout: to intentionally not obey a rule, law, or custom: Many motorcyclists flout the law by not wearing helmets.
dispel: to remove fears, doubts, or false ideas, usually by proving them wrong or unnecessary: We need to dispel the myths and establish real facts.
pervasive: present or noticeable in every part of a thing or place: The influence of Freud is pervasive in her books.
snob:  a person who judges the importance of people mainly by their social position or wealth, and who believes social position or wealth makes one person better than others; A snob can also be a person who gives a very high value to any quality which that person believes makes him or her better than other people: intellectual snobs
transgression: an action that breaks a law or rule: [ C ] It is hard to keep the transgressions of famous people out of the news.
prig: a person who obeys the rules of correct behaviour and considers himself or herself to be morally better than other people
voyeur: a person who gets sexual pleasure from secretly watching other people in sexual situations, or (more generally) a person who watches other people's private lives: I felt like a voyeur visiting the war zone and seeing badly injured people being dragged from their bomb-shattered homes.
insatiably: in a way that is too great to be satisfied: He was just a young man, insatiably curious about the world.
ingrate: a person who is not grateful
erratic: ​changing suddenly and unexpectedly: an erratic schedule
manifest: to show something clearly, through signs or actions: The workers chose to manifest their dissatisfaction in a series of strikes.; easily noticed or obvious: manifest relief; a list of people and goods carried on a ship or plane: He had been listed on the manifest for the flight but it could not be confirmed if he had boarded.
manifestation:  a sign of something existing or happening: She claimed that the rise in unemployment was just a further manifestation of the government's incompetence.; [ U ] appearance: Unlike acid rain or deforestation, global warming has no visible manifestation.
predisposition: the state of being likely to behave in a particular way or to suffer from a particular disease: She has an annoying predisposition to find fault. There is evidence that a predisposition to(wards) asthma runs in families.
strain: (PRESSURE)  to become stretched or to experience pressure, or to make something do or experience this: I've put on such a lot of weight recently - this dress is straining at the seams. (figurative) I really had to strain (= try very hard) to reach those top notes.
salient: The salient facts about something or qualities of something are the most important things about them: She began to summarize the salient features/points of the proposal. The article presented the salient facts of the dispute clearly and concisely.
intricate: with many complicated details that make something difficult to understand: Police officers uncovered an intricate web of deceit.
cacophony: an unpleasant mixture of loud sounds: As we entered the farmyard we were met with a cacophony of animal sounds.
compendium: a short but complete account of a particular subject, esp. in the form of a book: She put together a compendium of early American furniture.