forgo: to give up or do without; to not have or do something enjoyable
abstain: to not do something, especially something enjoyable that you think might be bad; He took a vow to abstain from alcohol/smoking/sex. ; to decide not to use your vote.
scanty: smaller in size or amount than is considered necessary or is hoped for; scanty evidence/information
preposterous: very silly or stupid; completely unreasonable and ridiculous; not to be believed.
abysmal: very bad; very deep
dissent: a strong difference of opinion on a particular subject, especially about an official suggestion or plan or a popular belief; in sports such as football and rugby, the offence of disagreeing with a decision made by a referee; to disagree with other people about something; law A dissent is also a legal opinion by a judge in a court that differs from the opinion of most of the other judges of the court; (of a judge) to offer a legal opinion in a court that differs from the opinion of most of the other judges of the court.
demur: to express disagreement or refuse to do something.
nadir: the worst moment, or the moment of least hope and least achievement
scathing: criticizing someone or something in a severe and unkind way
saccharine: too sweet or too polite
amenable: willing to accept or be influenced by a suggestion
genial: friendly and pleasant
refractory: not affected by a treatment, change, or process; difficult to control; unwilling to obey:
a refractory child
intractable: difficult or impossible to manage or control
redolent: smelling strongly of something or having qualities (especially smells) that make you think of something else
noisome: very unpleasant and offensive
malodorous: having an unpleasant smell
ambrosial: having a very pleasant taste or smell
altruistic: showing a wish to help or bring advantages to others, even if it results in disadvantage for yourself
perspicuous: (of an account or representation) clearly expressed and easily understood; lucid; (of a person) able to give an account or express an idea clearly
amiable: pleasant and friendly
patent: very obvious
amicable: friendly in attitude, or (of decisions or agreements) achieved with friendly attitudes and without unpleasant argument; an amicable agreement is achieved without arguments or anger
gregarious: liking to be with other people
piety: a strong belief in God or a religion, shown by your worship and behavior
disgruntled: unhappy, annoyed, and disappointed about something
reconcile: to adjust the way you think about a fact or situation that is opposed to another fact or situation so that you can accept both; If two people are reconciled, they become friendly again after having argued so seriously that they kept apart; To reconcile yourself to a situation is to accept it even if it is unpleasant or painful, because it cannot be changed
avid: extremely eager or interested
agog: excited and eager to know or see more
alacrity: speed and interest: He invited us all to visit, and we agreed with alacrity.
agitate: (ARGUE) to argue energetically, esp. in public, in order to achieve a particular type of change; (MAKE NERVOUS) to make someone become nervous because of worry or fear that is difficult to control
tranquil: calm, quiet, and peaceful
pugnacious: ready to fight or to argue very forcefully
pacific: peaceful or helping to cause peace
relegate: to put something or someone into a lower or less important rank or position
augment: to make something larger or fuller by adding something to it; He augmented his income by taking a second job.
avert: (PREVENT) to prevent something bad from happening; avoid; (TURN AWAY) to turn away your eyes or thoughts
adulate: to admire or praise someone very much, especially when this is more than is deserved
impugn: to cause people to doubt or not trust someone’s character, honesty, or ability
champion: (SUPPORTER)a person who enthusiastically supports, defends, or fights for a person, belief, right, or principle; to support, defend, or fight for a person, belief, right, or principle enthusiastically; excellent
negligent: not being careful or giving enough attention to people or things that are your responsibility
heedless: not giving attention to a risk or difficulty
advertent: intentional
attentive: listening or watching carefully; If someone is attentive, they are very helpful and take care of you
disdain: the feeling of not liking someone or something and thinking that they do not deserve your interest or respect; to feel disdain for someone or something; disdain to do sth: to refuse to do something because you feel you are too important to do it
disparage: to criticize someone or something in a way that shows a lack of respect
alloy: to spoil something or reduce it in value
admonish: to warn someone not to do something, usually in a kind way, or to tell someone to do something
fortify: to strengthen something, esp. in order to protect it
adulterate: to make something weaker or of worse quality by adding something else to it
raconteur: ​someone who tells funny or interesting stories
opportune: happening at a time which is likely to give success or which is convenient
extraneous: not directly connected or related to a matter being considered
benediction: a prayer asking for God’s help and protection
rancor: bitter anger or unfriendly feelings
irk: to annoy someone
antecedent: previous
somber: serious and sad in appearance or feeling; Somber colors or clothes are dark and plain
perfidy: behaviour that is not loyal
discernible: able to be seen, recognized, or understood
impalpable: difficult to feel or understand
foreboding: the feeling that something bad is going to happen
equanimity: the state of being calm and in control of your emotions, esp. in a difficult situation
torpor: the state of not being active and having no energy or enthusiasm
impassive: If someone's face is impassive, it expresses no emotion, because the person seems not to be affected by the situation they are experiencing.
ardor: strong emotion, or great enthusiasm or excitement
vehement: expressing very strong feelings, or showing great energy or force
onerous: causing great difficulty or trouble
arduous: difficult and tiring, or needing a great deal of effort
riveting: extremely interesting
pompous: feeling or showing that you think you are better or more important than other people
humility: the feeling or attitude that you have no special importance that makes you better than others; lack of pride
spartan: simple and not particularly comfortable
eloquent: giving a clear, strong message
cast aspersions on sb/sth: to criticize or make damaging remarks or judgments about someone or something: His opponents cast aspersions on his patriotism.
argot: words and expressions that are used by small groups of people and that are not easily understood by other people
calumniate: to make statements about someone that are not true and that are damaging to their reputation
rapacious: having or showing a strong wish to take things for yourself, usually using unfair methods or force
attenuate: to make something smaller, thinner, or weaker
abnegate: to not allow yourself to have something, especially something you like or want; to not accept something, or to say that you do not have something: to abnegate responsibility/guilt
abrogate: to end a law, agreement, or custom formally: The treaty was abrogated in 1929. ; to avoid something that you should do: Companies are really abrogating responsibility for safety.
accessory: something extra that improves or completes the thing it is added to; someone who helps another person to commit a crime but does not take part in it
adjourn: to rest or pause during a meeting or trial  [ I/T ] : They adjourned the meeting until after lunch
agonize: to spend a lot of time trying to make a decision
allay: to make a negative emotion less strong or a problem less difficult
anodyne: intended to avoid causing offence or disagreement, especially by not expressing strong feelings or opinions
anemic: having too few red blood cells, causing a lack of energy; (US anaemic) : without any energy and effort
in the ascendant: increasingly successful or powerful: He's very much in the ascendant in Hollywood.
assess: ping gu (ben yi) + to charge someone an amount of money as a special payment; 
atrocious: of very bad quality; An action that is atrocious is extremely cruel
audacious: showing an unusual willingness to take risks or offend people
asylum:  protection or safety, or a protected and safe place, given esp. to someone who has left a country or place for political reasons
augur: to be a sign of especially good or bad things in the future: Do you think that this recent ministerial announcement augurs (= is a sign of) a shift in government policy?
avarice: an extremely strong desire to obtain or keep wealth
aver: to say that something is certainly true
averse: strongly disliking or opposed to
bale: a large amount of something such as hay (= dry grass), paper, wool, or cloth that has been tied tightly together; to tie up something tightly into bales
baleful: threatening to do something bad or to hurt someone
balk: to be unwilling to do something or let something happen: I balked at the prospect of spending four hours on a train with him.
balky: reluctant; uncooperative: he was trying to get his balky horse to move
balderdash: something that is stupid or not true
balm: zhi tong gao ; something that gives comfort
banal: too often used in the past and therefore not interesting; boring, ordinary, and not original
bane: something that is particularly effective in causing you trouble or worry
irreverent: lacking the expected respect for official, important, or holy things: The television program takes an irreverent look at the medical profession.
insolent: (of a person or a person’s behavior) intentionally and rudely showing no respect: Students were often inattentive, sometimes even insolent, and showed relatively little interest in their work.
magnanimous: generous and kind, esp. toward a competitor or enemy: The Yankees’ manager was magnanimous in defeat, praising Seattle for its fine play.
deft: skillful, effective, and quick: He cut some logs up for firewood with a few deft strokes of his ax.
dexterity: the ability to use the hands skillfully in doing something: Playing with blocks improves a child’s manual dexterity.
jabber: to speak or say something quickly in a way that is difficult to understand: Jay was jabbering on about this and that.
astray: away from the correct path or way of doing something: Our district was led astray, and as a result, we wasted valuable resources.
candid: truthful and honest: We had a candid discussion about her poor job performance.
feign: to pretend to have a feeling or condition: He feigned sickness so he wouldn’t have to go to school.
benevolent: kind and helpful: I grew up happily under the benevolent influence of my Uncle Walt.
detrimental: causing harm or damage: These chemicals have a detrimental effect/impact on the environment.
contumacious: refusing to obey or respect the law in a way that shows contempt: The court has the power to apply sanctions for contumacious conduct.
docile: calm in manner and easy to control: They have a big dog, but he’s real friendly and docile.
burgeon: to develop or grow quickly: Love burgeoned between them.
maverick: an unorthodox or independent-minded person.; unorthodox
tumultuous: very loud, or full of confusion, change, or uncertainty; After the tumultuous events of 1990, Europe was completely transformed.
eccentric
sham: something that is not what it seems to be and is intended to deceive people, or someone who pretends to be something they are not: It turned out that he wasn't a real doctor at all - he was just a sham. to pretend:He isn't really upset - he's just shamming. only pretending to be real; false: They made a fortune through some sham property deal.
mediate: to talk to two separate people or groups involved in a disagreement to try to help them to agree or find a solution to their problems: Negotiators were called in to mediate between the two sides.
by so:  https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/112690/the-meaning-of-by-so-in-the-sentence  A person who agrees to serve as mediator between two warring factions at the request of both, abandons (by agreeing in this way) the right to take sides later. = A person who agrees to serve as mediator between two warring factions at the request of both abandons by so agreeing the right to take sides later. 
propriety: correct moral behavior or actions: Critics questioned the propriety of the senator’s appearance at a political fundraiser with a convicted criminal.
impervious: If someone is impervious to something,they are not influenced or affected by something: He is impervious to criticism and rational argument.
